README.md, before:

# BAITSAO

This is the offical code repo for manuscript: BAITSAO: Building A Foundation Model for Drug Synergy Analysis.

# Installation

We reply on [OpenAI](https://openai.com/) api for constructing the training dataset:

```
pip install openai
```

We reply on [pytorch](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) and [pytorch lightnining](https://lightning.ai/docs/pytorch/stable/) for model training. We also use scanpy for analysis.

```
conda activate baitsao
conda install pytorch torchvision torchaudio pytorch-cuda=12.1 -c pytorch -c nvidia
conda install lightning -c conda-forge
pip install pandas
pip install scanpy
pip install scipy
pip install scikit-learn
```

Optional: To reproduce our work based on [SHAP](https://shap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html), please install SHAP:

```
pip install shap
```

Optional: To reproduce our work based on CPA, please install CPA:

```
pip install git+https://github.com/theislab/cpa
```

Optional: To reproduce our work based on TabNet, please install TabNet:

```
pip install pytorch-tabnet
```

Optional: To reproduce our work based on BERT, please install transformer:

```
pip install transformer
```

Optional: To reproduce our work based on [linearMTL](https://github.com/tohein/linearMTL), please use R and install linearMTL:

```
install.packages("linearMTL")
```

# Training

To pretrain our model based on your own dataset, please refer codes under **pretraining**. We upload our model checkpoint in the folder:

To finetune our model or train it from scartch, please refer codes under **finetuning**.

We also have modified CPA codes under CPA folder, with a notebook about how to use it.

To test the performance of methods implemented in this manuscript, please refer the codes under **benchmarking**. Please refer official codes of [DeepSynergy](https://github.com/KristinaPreuer/DeepSynergy/tree/master), [MARSY](https://github.com/Emad-COMBINE-lab/MARSY), and [DeepDDs](https://github.com/Sinwang404/DeepDDs) for their implementation.


# Query

To use our pretrained model for zero-shot learning, please refer codes under **query**. We allow the inference for the combiantions with at most 10 drugs and one cell line.  


# Datasets

We offer a demo dataset in [this folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1ZtfbJYSMnZH6HTUqbOlJBfiNkD5-9pIY?usp=sharing).

# Acknowledgement

We refer codes from [UW](https://github.com/Mikoto10032/AutomaticWeightedLoss), [PCGARD, GRADVAC](https://github.com/anzeyimana/Pytorch-PCGrad-GradVac-AMP-GradAccum), and [NashMTL](https://github.com/AvivNavon/nash-mtl) for the implementation of multi-task learning framework. Thanks for their great codes!


# Citation
```
@article {Liu2024.04.08.588634,
	author = {Tianyu Liu and Tinyi Chu and Xiao Luo and Hongyu Zhao},
	title = {BAITSAO: Building A Foundation Model for Drug Synergy Analysis Powered by Language Models},
	elocation-id = {2024.04.08.588634},
	year = {2024},
	doi = {10.1101/2024.04.08.588634},
	publisher = {Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory},
	URL = {https://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/2024/04/12/2024.04.08.588634},
	eprint = {https://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/2024/04/12/2024.04.08.588634.full.pdf},
	journal = {bioRxiv}
}
```

Commit message:

update zero shot embeddings generation

README.md, after:

# BAITSAO

This is the offical code repo for manuscript: BAITSAO: Building A Foundation Model for Drug Synergy Analysis.

# Installation

We reply on [OpenAI](https://openai.com/) api for constructing the training dataset:

```
pip install openai
```

We reply on [pytorch](https://pytorch.org/get-started/locally/) and [pytorch lightnining](https://lightning.ai/docs/pytorch/stable/) for model training. We also use scanpy for analysis.

```
conda activate baitsao
conda install pytorch torchvision torchaudio pytorch-cuda=12.1 -c pytorch -c nvidia
conda install lightning -c conda-forge
pip install pandas
pip install scanpy
pip install scipy
pip install scikit-learn
```

Optional: To reproduce our work based on [SHAP](https://shap.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html), please install SHAP:

```
pip install shap
```

Optional: To reproduce our work based on CPA, please install CPA:

```
pip install git+https://github.com/theislab/cpa
```

Optional: To reproduce our work based on TabNet, please install TabNet:

```
pip install pytorch-tabnet
```

Optional: To reproduce our work based on BERT, please install transformer:

```
pip install transformer
```

Optional: To reproduce our work based on [linearMTL](https://github.com/tohein/linearMTL), please use R and install linearMTL:

```
install.packages("linearMTL")
```

# Preparing datasets

To generate the embeddings used in the training process, please refer codes under **embeddings**.

# Training

To pretrain our model based on your own dataset, please refer codes under **pretraining**. We upload our model checkpoint in the folder:

To finetune our model or train it from scartch, please refer codes under **finetuning**.

We also have modified CPA codes under CPA folder, with a notebook about how to use it.

To test the performance of methods implemented in this manuscript, please refer the codes under **benchmarking**. Please refer official codes of [DeepSynergy](https://github.com/KristinaPreuer/DeepSynergy/tree/master), [MARSY](https://github.com/Emad-COMBINE-lab/MARSY), and [DeepDDs](https://github.com/Sinwang404/DeepDDs) for their implementation.


# Query

To use our pretrained model for zero-shot learning, please refer codes under **query**. We allow the inference for the combiantions with at most 10 drugs and one cell line.  


# Datasets

We offer a demo dataset in [this folder](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1ZtfbJYSMnZH6HTUqbOlJBfiNkD5-9pIY?usp=sharing).

# Acknowledgement

We refer codes from [UW](https://github.com/Mikoto10032/AutomaticWeightedLoss), [PCGARD, GRADVAC](https://github.com/anzeyimana/Pytorch-PCGrad-GradVac-AMP-GradAccum), and [NashMTL](https://github.com/AvivNavon/nash-mtl) for the implementation of multi-task learning framework. Thanks for their great codes!


# Citation
```
@article {Liu2024.04.08.588634,
	author = {Tianyu Liu and Tinyi Chu and Xiao Luo and Hongyu Zhao},
	title = {BAITSAO: Building A Foundation Model for Drug Synergy Analysis Powered by Language Models},
	elocation-id = {2024.04.08.588634},
	year = {2024},
	doi = {10.1101/2024.04.08.588634},
	publisher = {Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory},
	URL = {https://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/2024/04/12/2024.04.08.588634},
	eprint = {https://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/2024/04/12/2024.04.08.588634.full.pdf},
	journal = {bioRxiv}
}
```
